=pod

=head1 NAME

MediaInfo - command line utility to display information about audio/video files

MediaInfo-Gui - graphical utility to display information about audio/video files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over

=item mediainfo [F<-Options>...] F<FileName1> [F<Filename2>...]

=item mediainfo F<--Inform=FMT> F<FileName>

=item mediainfo-gui [F<-Options>...] F<FileName1> [F<Filename2>...]

=item mediainfo-gui F<--Inform=FMT> F<FileName>

=back


=head1 DESCRIPTION

MediaInfo supplies technical and tag information about a video or audio file

What information can I get from MediaInfo?

=over

=item -
General: title, author, director, album, track number, date, duration...

=item -
Video: codec, aspect, fps, bitrate...

=item -
Audio: codec, sample rate, channels, language, bitrate...

=item -
Text: language of subtitle

=item -
Chapters: number of chapters, list of chapters

=back

What format does MediaInfo support?

=over

=item -
Video: MKV, OGM, AVI, DivX, WMV, QuickTime, Real, MPEG-1, MPEG-2, MPEG-4, DVD (VOB)...

=item -
Video Codecs: DivX, XviD, MSMPEG4, ASP, H.264, AVC...

=item -
Audio: OGG, MP3, WAV, RA, AC3, DTS, AAC, M4A, AU, AIFF...

=item -
Subtitles: SRT, SSA, ASS, SAMI...

=back


What can I do with it?

=over

=item -
Read many video and audio file formats

=item -
View information in different formats (text, sheet, tree, HTML...)

=item -
Customise these viewing formats

=item -
Export information as text, CSV, HTML...

=item -
Graphical Interface, Command Line, or library versions available

=back


=head1 OPTIONS

MediaInfo supports the following case-insensitive options:

=over

=item B<--Help>, B<-h>

Display help and exit

=item B<--Help-Inform>

Display help for B<--Inform> option

=item B<--Help-AnOption>

Display help for "AnOption"

=item B<--Version>

Display MediaInfo version and exit

=item B<--Full>, B<-f>

Full information Display (all internal tags)

=item B<--Output=HTML>

Full information Display with HTML tags

=item B<--Output=XML>

Full information Display with XML tags

=item B<--Inform=FMT>

Template defined information display.

FMT is "[xxx;]Text", where xxx can be any one of General, Video, Audio, Text,
Chapter, Image, or Menu. Text can be the template text, or a filename in the
form of file:///path

See B<--Info-Parameters> for available parameters in the text. Parameters must
be surrounded by "%".

=item B<--Info-Parameters>

Display list of B<--Inform> parameters

=item B<--Language=raw>

Display non-translated unique identifiers (internal text)

=item B<--LogFile=F<LogFile>>

Save the output in F<LogFile>

=back


=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Display information about a video file

 $ mediainfo foo.mkv

=head2 Display aspect ratio

 $ mediainfo --Inform="Video;%DisplayAspectRatio%" foo.mkv
 $ mediainfo --Inform="Video;file://Video.txt" foo.mkv

Both forms are equivalent if Video.txt contains:
 %DisplayAspectRatio%

=head2 Display aspect ration and audio format

 $ mediainfo --Inform="file://Text.txt foo.mkv

If Text.txt contains:

=over

=item -
"Video;%DisplayAspectRatio%"

Then the display aspect ratio is printed out.

=item -
"Audio;%Format%"

Then the audio format is printed out.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

This manual page was written by Chow Loong Jin <hyperair@debian.org> for the
Debian system (but may be used by others). Permissions is granted to copy,
distribute, and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU General
Public License, Version 3 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation.

On Debian systems, the full text of the GNU General Public License, Version 3
can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL-3.

=cut
